## Teaching philosophy

Statistics can make sense, and coding can be exciting. Those are the premises on which I build my applied methodology courses. They can be dry subjects, so I make a point to bring the joy and satisfaction that I get from them into the classroom. I find that my enthusiasm goes a long way toward keeping students engaged. One of the challenges to maintaining student motivation is the extent to which details must be correct for code to execute or an analysis to be valid. To maintain motivation through those challenges, I start classes and lessons with the payoff and then circle back to cover the details.

For example, I start my introduction to scientific computing classes with advanced visualization -- within the first class session students are manipulating R code to create beautiful, informative plots. Of course, they don't understand all the working parts of the code yet, but they can play with it, and that connection to the material sustains motivation to wrestle with details in the weeks to come.

I subscribe to the philosophy of student-centered learning and the strategy of backward course design. This means that I start planning a course by defining the students' learning objectives in the context of their degree program; then I design the final assessment, completing which demonstrates meeting the objectives; and lastly I design lectures, activities, and intermediate assessments that guide students to being able to complete final assessments and so reach the course objectives. I structure lessons and activities so that students iterate over topics, each time returning to them with more open-endedness, which serves to reinforce concrete concepts and skills and provides creative opportunities for development and application. 

I find it important to keep my classes dynamic and responsive to student needs. I build flexibility into my methods courses by writing code live in front of the class. In addition to integrating flexibility, this shows the process of doing scientific computing rather than just the product, and it reveals that everyone makes mistakes and allows me to demonstrate how I diagnose and fix them. It also forces slower delivery, which tends to align well with the rate at which students can absorb information. I deliver code as I am writing it to students through a web link so that they can try to code along with me but can catch up by referencing my code if they miss something. They can then switch seamlessly between following along with my code and writing their own during in-class exercises, which I use extensively.

In addition to live coding, I structure a lot of interactivity in the classroom, both among students and between myself and students. I give students colored sticky notes that they can use to signal to myself and my TAs that they have finished an exercise or that they need help. I make extensive use of Google Forms, for example to have students answer multiple choice questions that serve as part of the above-mentioned iterative approach to the material, provide me feedback that allows me to adjust my pace and methods to student needs, and provide students feedback on their understanding relative to the rest of the class, which I find gives them a better sense of how they might need to adjust their effort or when it would be beneficial to the class to ask a question. I also use Google Forms to regularly ask for explicit feedback on my teaching from the students. Getting weekly evaluations of students' perception of my teaching and their perceived understanding not only allows me to make mid-course adjustments but also shows students that I am invested in their learning and care about their perceptions. All of this helps build a sense of community in the classroom wherein we are working together on a common mission and students feel safe to acknowledge gaps in their understanding and explore ideas over which they don't yet have firm command.

## Teaching experience

I have taught a wide variety of subjects across student levels. During my doctoral studies, I served as a Teaching Assistant for a PhD-level Bayesian statistics class for which the professor was out of the country for the duration of course (lectures were pre-recorded and I was the primary contact for the [number tbd] students). As part of my Professors for the Future Fellowship, I developed a one-week, 30-classroom-hour intensive introduction to the statistical programming language R. The course was available to graduate students and post-docs at UC Davis, over 350 of whom registered. I delivered the class to 200 students, and it was widely well reviewed (Mean student evaluations: instructor's overall teaching: 4.6/5, inspired and motivated student interest: 4.7/5, demonstrated concern for student learning: 4.9/5). I also TA-ed for the Interuniversity Consortium for Political and Social Research (ICPSR) during the summers of my PhD, teaching Social Network Analysis in R at UC Berkeley in the summer of 2015.

During my master's, I taught a capstone Biology course in which groups of undergraduates executed a full research project from conceptualization and proposal to analysis and presentation in a semester, and I TA-ed introductory and environmental biology laboratories. As an undergraduate, I TA-ed chemistry laboratories, and between my undergraduate and graduate programs, I taught English in South Korea and Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) preparation for the Princeton Review. 

I have also mentored successful student research projects. In addition to the above-mentioned research class, I have mentored high school students' research projects through the EnviroMentors program. I incorporated undergraduates into my doctoral research, teaching them to independently code analyses. During my master's, I mentored an undergraduate's honor's thesis on the effects of coal ash application to surface mines. I look forward to developing a community of mentees. I think I do a good job of creating a cooperative classroom environment that facilitates learning, and I am excited to do the same in research.

## Teaching interests

While I am primarily interested in teaching applied methodology, I am also qualified and happy to teach environmental science and social-ecological systems---on which I have conducted research on both sides---as well as environmental policy and policy analysis. I take the most satisfaction from teaching at the intersection of substantive questions and methodological techniques: I love showing students how, for example, a statistical analysis can provide insight into a hypothesis of interest. I can teach undergraduate and graduate statistics and can incorporate computation into those classes in a way that both builds practical skills and bolsters statistical understanding. I could also teach computing classes that are largely separate from statistics, covering topics such as data and code management, version control, visualization, and automation. I would love to teach advanced classes in agent-based modeling and network analysis, which could integrate theory from the environmental governance literature with practical application and analysis.